General info:

The Sun is the star at the center of our Solar System and is informally called a yellow dwarf [link].
It is composed by hot plasma inflated and heated by energy produced by nuclear fusion reactions at its core. 
A part of its energy is emitted, under the form of light, from its incredibly hot surface and provides most of the energy needed for life on Earth, making it possible.

Its mass of nearly two quintillion (1.9885×10^30) kilograms, that is around the same as 332,950 Earths, makes up about 99.86% of the entire mass of the Solar System and consists for the most part of hydrogen (roughly 73%), the rest it mostly helium (roughly 25%).
In much smaller quantities we can find in it heavier elements such as Oxygen, Carbon, Neon and Iron.

Even if from our blue dot the Sun seems fairly small, in reality it is massive. It has a diameter of about 1 million kilometers (1,391,400 km), that is the same as 109 Earths or four times the distance from Earth to the Moon. 
This optical illusion is due to the extreme distance between us, called an astronomical unit (AU), it being approximately 150 million kilometers, or 864 thousand miles. This space is so wide that light, the fastest thing in a vacuum, takes eight minutes to reach our planet.

The sun's surface gravity is 28 times the one here on Earth, to be more precise, it is 274 meters per second square, and it has a surface temperature of 5,600 Celsius or ten thousand degrees Fahrenheit.

Our star has been around for approximately 4.6 billions of years and has originated from a gravitational collapse [link] of matter within a region of a large molecular cloud [link]. 
Most of this matter gathered in the center, whereas the rest flattened into an orbiting disk that became the Solar System. 
The central mass became so hot and dense that it eventually initiated nuclear fusion [link] in its core. 
It is thought that almost all stars form by this process. 

For every second that pass our sun, in its core, fuses about 600 million tons of hydrogen into helium and converts four million tons of matter into energy [link].
The produced energy, which is the source of a star's light and heat, doesn't leave the core right away, but it takes between 10 and 170 thousand years to do so.

Far in the future, when hydrogen fusion in the Sun's core diminishes to the point where the Sun is no longer in hydrostatic equilibrium [link], its core will undergo a marked increase in density and temperature which will push its outer layers to expand, eventually transforming the Sun into a red giant [link]. 
This process will make the Sun large enough to render Earth uninhabitable approximately five billion years from the present. 
After this, the Sun will shed its outer layers and become a dense type of cooling star (a white dwarf) [link], and no longer produce energy by fusion, but still glow and give off heat from its previous fusion for trillions of years. 
After that it might become a super dense hypothetical black dwarf [link], giving off no more energy. 



-From: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sun

Composition and Structure:



Life phases:


Sun in History and Culture:


Advanced info:

-What is a yellow dwarf?



-What is a gravitational collapse?

Gravitational collapse is the contraction of an astronomical object (a naturally occurring physical entity, association, or structure that exists within the observable universe) due to the influence of its own gravity, which tends to draw matter inward toward the center of gravity.
This mechanism is fundamental for structure formation in the universe and can lead to the formation of stars or black holes if the density reached is high enough.

-From: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravitational_collapse

-What is a molecular cloud?



-What is nuclear fusion?



-How does the sun convert matter into energy?



-Sun's hydrostatic equilibrium



-What is a red giant?



-What are white and black dwarf stars?

More Facts:

-Where does the Sun's name cames from?

The English word sun developed from Old English sunne. 
Cognates appear in other Germanic languages, including West Frisian sinne, Dutch zon, Low German Sünn, Standard German Sonne, Bavarian Sunna, Old Norse sunna, and Gothic sunnō. 
All these words stem from Proto-Germanic *sunnōn.
This is ultimately related to the word for sun in other branches of the Indo-European language family, though in most cases a nominative stem with an l is found, rather than the genitive stem in n, as for example in Latin sōl, ancient Greek ἥλιος (hēlios), Welsh haul and Czech slunce, as well as (with *l > r) Sanskrit स्वर (svár) and Persian خور (xvar). 
Indeed, the l-stem survived in Proto-Germanic as well, as *sōwelan, which gave rise to Gothic sauil (alongside sunnō) and Old Norse prosaic sól (alongside poetic sunna), and through it the words for sun in the modern Scandinavian languages: Swedish and Danish sol, Icelandic sól, etc.

-From: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sun#Etymology

Strong Evidence For Coronal Heating Theory Presented at 2015 TESS Meeting : 

-From: https://www.nasa.gov/solar-system/strong-evidence-for-coronal-heating-theory-presented-at-2015-tess-meeting/
